{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern Courier New;}{\f1\froman Times New;}{\f2\froman Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Garamond;}{\f4\froman Garamond-Normal;}{\f5\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Garamond-Normal;}{\f6\froman\fprq2 Garamond;}{\f7\fnil Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs24 The Book of Common Prayer,\par
Formatted as the original\par
\f1\par
\f0 This document was created from a text file into WordPerfect for Windows 6.1 and then converted to RTF format. When you convert it to your word processor\rquote s native format it is almost inevitable that these conversions will not be perfect and that some adjustments in the formatting will be needed on your part. In particular, line spacing variations are not preserved. If you have problems, you may e-mail us at the address below and we can send you (via e-mail) this document in a different format. \par
\f1\par
\f0 You may redistribute this document electronically provided no fee is charged and this header remains part of the document. While every attempt was made to ensure accuracy, certain errors may exist in the text.\par
\f1\par
\par
\par
This document was created by:\par
\par
\f0 Charles Wohlers\par
East Bridgewater, Mass. USA\par
chadwohl@satucket.com\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\f2\par
\i\f3\fs36 Concerning the Vigil\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\par
\fs20 The Great Vigil, when observed, is the first service of Easter Day. It is celebrated at a convenient time between sunset on Holy Saturday and\par
sunrise on Easter Morning.\par
 \par
The service normally consists of four parts:\par
1.  The Service of Light.\par
2.  The Service of Lessons.\par
3.  Christian Initiation, or the Renewal of Baptismal Vows.\par
4.  The Holy Eucharist with the administration of Easter Communion.\par
\par
It is customary for all the ordained ministers present, together with lay\par
readers, singers, and other persons, to take active parts in the service.\par
 \par
The bishop, when present, is the chief celebrant, presides at Baptism\par
and administers Communion, and normally preaches the sermon.\par
\par
*The priests who are present share among them the reading of the Collects which follow each Lesson, and assist at Baptism and the Eucharist. In the absence of a bishop, a priest presides at the service.\par
 \par
It is the prerogative of a deacon to carry the Paschal Candle to its place, \par
and to chant the Exsultet.  Deacons likewise assist at Baptism and the Eucharist according to their order.\par
 \par
Lay persons read the Lessons and the Epistle, and assist in other ways.  A \par
lay person may be assigned to chant the Exsultet.  It is desirable that each Lesson be read by a different reader.\par
 \par
In the absence of a bishop or priest, a deacon or lay reader may lead the \par
first two parts of the service, the Renewal of Baptismal Vows, and the Ministry of the Word of the Vigil Eucharist, concluding with the Prayers \par
of the People, the Lord's Prayer, and the Dismissal.\par
 \par
A deacon may also, when the services of a priest cannot be obtained, and with the authorization of the bishop, officiate at public Baptism; and may administer Easter Communion from the Sacrament previously consecrated.\par
 \par
When the Vigil is not celebrated, the Service of Light may take place\par
at a convenient time before the Liturgy on Easter Day.\par
 \fs24\par
\par
\fs48 The Great Vigil of Easter\fs24\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 \par
\fs36 The Lighting of the Paschal Candle\fs24\par
 \par
\i\fs20 In the darkness, fire is kindled; after which the Celebrant may address\par
the people in these or similar words\i0\fs24\par
 \par
Dear friends in Christ: On this most holy night, in which our\par
Lord Jesus passed over from death to life, the Church invites\par
her members, dispersed throughout the world, to gather in\par
vigil and prayer.  For this is the Passover of the Lord, in which,\par
by hearing his Word and celebrating his Sacraments, we share\par
in his victory over death.\par
  \par
\i\fs20 The Celebrant may say the following prayer\i0\fs24\par
 \par
Let us pray.\par
 \par
O God, through your Son you have bestowed upon your\par
people the brightness of your light: Sanctify this new fire, and\par
grant that in this Paschal feast we may so burn with heavenly\par
desires, that with pure minds we may attain to the festival of\par
everlasting light; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\par
  \par
\i\fs20 The Paschal Candle is then lighted from the newly kindled fire, and the\par
Deacon (the Celebrant if there is no deacon) bearing the Candle, leads the procession to the chancel, pausing three times and singing or saying\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tab\tab The light of Christ. \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24  \tab Thanks be to God.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\par
\par
\i\fs20 If candles have been distributed to members of the congregation, they are lighted from the Paschal Candle at this time.  Other candles and lamps in the church, except for those at the Altar, may also be lighted.\par
 \par
The Paschal Candle placed in its stand.\par
 \par
Then the Deacon, or other person appointed, standing near the Candle,\par
sings or says the Exsultet, as follows (the indicated sections may be\par
omitted)\par
 \i0\fs24\par
Rejoice now, heavenly hosts and choirs of angels, \par
and let your trumpets shout Salvation \par
for the victory of our mighty King. \par
 \par
Rejoice and sing now, all the round earth, \par
bright with a glorious splendor, \par
for darkness has been vanquished by our eternal King. \par
 \par
Rejoice and be glad now, Mother Church, \par
and let your holy courts, in radiant light, \par
resound with the praises of your people. \par
 \par
All you who stand near this marvelous and holy flame, \par
pray with me to God the Almighty \par
for the grace to sing the worthy praise of this great light; \par
through Jesus Christ our Lord, \par
who lives and reigns with him, \par
in the unity of the Holy Spirit, \par
one God, for ever and ever.  \i Amen.\i0  \par
 \par
\tab\tab The Lord be with you. \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Answe\i0\fs24 r  \tab And also with you. \par
\i\fs20 Deacon\i0\fs24   \tab Let us give thanks to the Lord our God. \par
\i\fs20 Answer\i0\fs24   \tab It is right to give him thanks and praise.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\i\fs20 Deacon\i0\fs24\par
 \par
It is truly right and good, always and everywhere, with our \par
whole heart and mind and voice, to praise you, the invisible,\par
almighty, and eternal God, and your only-begotten Son,\par
Jesus Christ our Lord; for he is the true Paschal Lamb, who\par
at the feast of the Passover paid for us the debt of Adam's sin,\par
and by his blood delivered your faithful people.\par
 \par
This is the night, when you brought our fathers, the children\par
of Israel, out of bondage in Egypt, and led them through the\par
Red Sea on dry land.\par
 \par
This is the night, when all who believe in Christ are delivered\par
from the gloom of sin, and are restored to grace and holiness\par
of life.\par
 \par
This is the night, when Christ broke the bonds of death and hell, and rose victorious from the grave.\par
 \par
How wonderful and beyond our knowing, O God, is your\par
mercy and loving-kindness to us, that to redeem a slave, you\par
gave a Son.\par
 \par
How holy is this night, when wickedness is put to flight, and\par
sin is washed away. It restores innocence to the fallen, and joy\par
to those who mourn. It casts out pride and hatred, and brings\par
peace and concord.\par
 \par
How blessed is this night, when earth and heaven are joined\par
and man is reconciled to God.\par
 \par
Holy Father, accept our evening sacrifice, the offering of this\par
candle in your honor.  May it shine continually to drive away\par
all darkness. May Christ, the Morning Star who knows no\par
setting, find it ever burning--he who gives his light to all\par
creation, and who lives and reigns for ever and ever.  \i Amen.\par
 \par
\fs20 It is customary that the Paschal Candle burn at all services from\par
Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost.\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\par
\fs36 The Liturgy of the Word\fs24\par
 \par
\par
\i\fs20 The Celebrant may introduce the Scripture readings in these or similar\par
words\i0\fs24\par
 \par
Let us hear the record of God's saving deeds in history, how\par
he saved his people in ages past; and let us pray that our God\par
will bring each of us to the fullness of redemption.\par
 \par
\i\fs20 At least two of the following Lessons are read, of which one is always the Lesson from Exodus.  After each Lesson, the Psalm or Canticle listed, or some other suitable psalm, canticle, or hymn may be sung.  A period of silence may be kept; and the Collect provided, or some other suitable Collect, may be said.\i0\fs24\par
\fs20  \par
 \par
\b\fs24 The story of Creation\b0  \fs20\par
\par
\fs22 Genesis 1:1 (NRSV) In the beginning when God created the heavens and the earth, 2 the earth was a formless void and darkness covered the face of the deep, while a wind from God swept over the face of the waters. 3 Then God said, "Let there be light"; and there was light. 4 And God saw that the light was good; and God separated the light from the darkness. 5 God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day. \par
6 And God said, "Let there be a dome in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters." 7 So God made the dome and separated the waters that were under the dome from the waters that were above the dome. And it was so. 8 God called the dome Sky. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day. \par
9 And God said, "Let the waters under the sky be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear." And it was so. 10 God called the dry land Earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called Seas. And God saw that it was good. 11 Then God said, "Let the earth put forth vegetation: plants yielding seed, and fruit trees of every kind on earth that bear fruit with the seed in it." And it was so. 12 The earth brought forth vegetation: plants yielding seed of every kind, and trees of every kind bearing fruit with the seed in it. And God saw that it was good. 13 And there was evening and there was morning, the third day. \par
14 And God said, "Let there be lights in the dome of the sky to separate the day from the night; and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, 15 and let them be lights in the dome of the sky to give light upon the earth." And it was so. 16 God made the two great lights--the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night--and the stars. 17 God set them in the dome of the sky to give light upon the earth, 18 to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. 19 And there was evening and there was morning, the fourth day. \par
20 And God said, "Let the waters bring forth swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the dome of the sky." 21 So God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves, of every kind, with which the waters swarm, and every winged bird of every kind. And God saw that it was good. 22 God blessed them, saying, "Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth." 23 And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day. \par
24 And God said, "Let the earth bring forth living creatures of every kind: cattle and creeping things and wild animals of the earth of every kind." And it was so. 25 God made the wild animals of the earth of every kind, and the cattle of every kind, and everything that creeps upon the ground of every kind. And God saw that it was good. \par
26 Then God said, "Let us make humankind in our image, according to our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the wild animals of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth." \par
27 So God created humankind in his image, \par
in the image of God he created them;\par
male and female he created them. \par
\pard 28 God blessed them, and God said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth." 29 God said, "See, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit; you shall have them for food. 30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food." And it was so. 31 God saw everything that he had made, and indeed, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day. 2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all their multitude. 2 And on the seventh day God finished the work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all the work that he had done. 3 So God blessed the seventh day and hallowed it, because on it God rested from all the work that he had done in creation. \par
4 These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created. \par
In the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens, \par
\f4\fs20\par
 \fs22\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\b\f3\fs36 136\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Confitemini\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 1  \tab Give thanks to the L\scaps ord\scaps0 , for he is good, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 2  \tab Give thanks to the God of gods, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 3  \tab Give thanks to the Lord of lords, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever.\par
\pard\sl360\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 4  \tab Who only does great wonders, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 5  \tab Who by wisdom made the heavens, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 6  \tab Who spread out the earth upon the waters, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 7  \tab Who created great lights, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 8  \tab The sun to rule the day, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 9  \tab The moon and the stars to govern the night, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever.\par
\pard\sl360\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 23  \tab Who remembered us in our low estate, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 24  \tab And delivered us from our enemies, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 25  \tab Who gives food to all creatures, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 26  \tab Give thanks to the God of heaven, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for his mercy endures for ever.\f5\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\f4\fs22   \par
\f3\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
O God, who wonderfully created, and yet more wonderfully\par
restored, the dignity of human nature: Grant that we may\par
share the divine life of him who humbled himself to share our\par
humanity, your Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\fs22\par
\i\fs20  \par
 \par
\b\i0\fs24 The Flood\b0\i  \fs20\par
\i0\par
\fs22 Genesis 7:1 (NRSV) Then the LORD said to Noah, "Go into the ark, you and all your household, for I have seen that you alone are righteous before me in this generation. 2 Take with you seven pairs of all clean animals, the male and its mate; and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the male and its mate; 3 and seven pairs of the birds of the air also, male and female, to keep their kind alive on the face of all the earth. 4 For in seven days I will send rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights; and every living thing that I have made I will blot out from the face of the ground." 5 And Noah did all that the LORD had commanded him. \par
\par
11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened. 12 The rain fell on the earth forty days and forty nights. 13 On the very same day Noah with his sons, Shem and Ham and Ja'pheth, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons entered the ark, 14 they and every wild animal of every kind, and all domestic animals of every kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, and every bird of every kind--every bird, every winged creature. 15 They went into the ark with Noah, two and two of all flesh in which there was the breath of life. 16 And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him; and the LORD shut him in. \par
17 The flood continued forty days on the earth; and the waters increased, and bore up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. 18 The waters swelled and increased greatly on the earth; and the ark floated on the face of the waters.\par
\par
8:6 At the end of forty days Noah opened the window of the ark that he had made 7 and sent out the raven; and it went to and fro until the waters were dried up from the earth. 8 Then he sent out the dove from him, to see if the waters had subsided from the face of the ground; 9 but the dove found no place to set its foot, and it returned to him to the ark, for the waters were still on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took it and brought it into the ark with him. 10 He waited another seven days, and again he sent out the dove from the ark; 11 and the dove came back to him in the evening, and there in its beak was a freshly plucked olive leaf; so Noah knew that the waters had subsided from the earth. 12 Then he waited another seven days, and sent out the dove; and it did not return to him any more. \par
13 In the six hundred first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from the earth; and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and saw that the face of the ground was drying. 14 In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dry. 15 Then God said to Noah, 16 "Go out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and your sons' wives with you. 17 Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh--birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth--so that they may abound on the earth, and be fruitful and multiply on the earth." 18 So Noah went out with his sons and his wife and his sons' wives.\par
\par
9:8 Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him, 9 "As for me, I am establishing my covenant with you and your descendants after you, 10 and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the domestic animals, and every animal of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark. 11 I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of a flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth." 12 God said, "This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all future generations: 13 I have set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. \par
\f4\fs20\par
 \par
\b\f3\fs32 46\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Deus noster refugium\i0\fs24\par
 \fs22\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\fs24 1  \tab God is our refuge and strength, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  a very present help in trouble.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 2  \tab Therefore we will not fear, though the earth be moved, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and though the mountains be toppled into the depths of the sea;\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 3  \tab Though its waters rage and foam, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and though the mountains tremble at its tumult.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 4  \tab The Lord of hosts is with us; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  the God of Jacob is our stronghold.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800   \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 5  \tab There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  the holy habitation of the Most High. \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 6  \tab God is in the midst of her;\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 she shall not be overthrown; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  God shall help her at the break of day.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 7  \tab The nations make much ado, and the kingdoms are shaken; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  God has spoken, and the earth shall melt away.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 8  \tab The Lord of hosts is with us; *\par
\pard\fi-324\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \tab the God of Jacob is our stronghold.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 9  \tab Come now and look upon the works of the Lord, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  what awesome things he has done on earth.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 10  \tab It is he who makes war to cease in all the world; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  he breaks the bow, and shatters the spear,\par
 and burns the shields with fire.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 11  \tab\f6\ldblquote\f3 Be still, then, and know that I am God; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  I will be exalted among the nations; I will be exalted in the earth.\f6\rdblquote\f3\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 12  \tab The Lord of hosts is with us; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  the God of Jacob is our stronghold.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\fs22   \par
\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
Almighty God, you have placed in the skies the sign of your\par
covenant with all living things: Grant that we, who are saved\par
through water and the Spirit, may worthily offer to you our\par
sacrifice of thanksgiving; through Jesus Christ our Lord.\par
\i Amen.\i0\par
\f4  \par
 \par
\b\f3 Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac\b0\fs20\par
 \par
\fs22 Genesis 22:1 (NRSV) After these things God tested Abraham. He said to him, "Abraham!" And he said, "Here I am." 2 He said, "Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Mori'ah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains that I shall show you." 3 So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac; he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and set out and went to the place in the distance that God had shown him. 4 On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place far away. 5 Then Abraham said to his young men, "Stay here with the donkey; the boy and I will go over there; we will worship, and then we will come back to you." 6 Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on his son Isaac, and he himself carried the fire and the knife. So the two of them walked on together. 7 Isaac said to his father Abraham, "Father!" And he said, "Here I am, my son." He said, "The fire and the wood are here, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?" 8 Abraham said, "God himself will provide the lamb for a burnt offering, my son." So the two of them walked on together. \par
9 When they came to the place that God had shown him, Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order. He bound his son Isaac, and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. 10 Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to kill his son. 11 But the angel of the LORD called to him from heaven, and said, "Abraham, Abraham!" And he said, "Here I am." 12 He said, "Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him; for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me." 13 And Abraham looked up and saw a ram, caught in a thicket by its horns. Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. 14 So Abraham called that place "The LORD will provide"; as it is said to this day, "On the mount of the LORD it shall be provided."\par
15 The angel of the LORD called to Abraham a second time from heaven, 16 and said, "By myself I have sworn, says the LORD: Because you have done this, and have not withheld your son, your only son, 17 I will indeed bless you, and I will make your offspring as numerous as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of their enemies, 18 and by your offspring shall all the nations of the earth gain blessing for themselves, because you have obeyed my voice." \par
\f4\fs20\par
 \par
\b\f3\fs32 16\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Conserva me, Domine\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 1  \tab Protect me, O God, for I take refuge in you; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  I have said to the Lord, \f6\ldblquote\f3 You are my Lord,\par
 my good above all other.\f6\rdblquote\f3\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 2  \tab All my delight is upon the godly that are in the land, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  upon those who are noble among the people.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 3  \tab But those who run after other gods *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  shall have their troubles multiplied.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 4  \tab Their libations of blood I will not offer, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  nor take the names of their gods upon my lips.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 5  \tab O Lord, you are my portion and my cup; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  it is you who uphold my lot.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 6  \tab My boundaries enclose a pleasant land; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  indeed, I have a goodly heritage.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 7  \tab I will bless the LORD who gives me counsel; *\par
\pard\fi-324\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \tab my heart teaches me, night after night.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 8  \tab I have set the Lord always before me; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  because he is at my right hand I shall not fall.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 9  \tab My heart, therefore, is glad, and my spirit rejoices; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  my body also shall rest in hope.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 10  For you will not abandon me to the grave, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  nor let your holy one see the Pit.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 11  You will show me the path of life; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  in your presence there is fullness of joy,\par
 and in your right hand are pleasures for evermore.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \fs20\par
 \fs22\par
\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
God and Father of all believers, for the glory of your Name\par
multiply, by the grace of the Paschal sacrament, the number\par
of your children; that your Church may rejoice to see fulfilled\par
your promise to our father Abraham; through Jesus Christ\par
our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\par
\f4  \par
 \par
\b\f3 Israel's deliverance at the Red Sea\b0  \fs20\par
\par
\fs22 Exodus 14:10 (NRSV) As Pharaoh drew near, the Israelites looked back, and there were the Egyptians advancing on them. In great fear the Israelites cried out to the LORD. 11 They said to Moses, "Was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? What have you done to us, bringing us out of Egypt? 12 Is this not the very thing we told you in Egypt, "Let us alone and let us serve the Egyptians'? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness." 13 But Moses said to the people, "Do not be afraid, stand firm, and see the deliverance that the LORD will accomplish for you today; for the Egyptians whom you see today you shall never see again. 14 The LORD will fight for you, and you have only to keep still." \par
15 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Why do you cry out to me? Tell the Israelites to go forward. 16 But you lift up your staff, and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it, that the Israelites may go into the sea on dry ground. 17 Then I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will go in after them; and so I will gain glory for myself over Pharaoh and all his army, his chariots, and his chariot drivers. 18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I have gained glory for myself over Pharaoh, his chariots, and his chariot drivers." \par
19 The angel of God who was going before the Israelite army moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from in front of them and took its place behind them. 20 It came between the army of Egypt and the army of Israel. And so the cloud was there with the darkness, and it lit up the night; one did not come near the other all night. \par
21 Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea. The LORD drove the sea back by a strong east wind all night, and turned the sea into dry land; and the waters were divided. 22 The Israelites went into the sea on dry ground, the waters forming a wall for them on their right and on their left. 23 The Egyptians pursued, and went into the sea after them, all of Pharaoh's horses, chariots, and chariot drivers. 24 At the morning watch the LORD in the pillar of fire and cloud looked down upon the Egyptian army, and threw the Egyptian army into panic. 25 He clogged their chariot wheels so that they turned with difficulty. The Egyptians said, "Let us flee from the Israelites, for the LORD is fighting for them against Egypt." \par
26 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the sea, so that the water may come back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots and chariot drivers." 27 So Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and at dawn the sea returned to its normal depth. As the Egyptians fled before it, the LORD tossed the Egyptians into the sea. 28 The waters returned and covered the chariots and the chariot drivers, the entire army of Pharaoh that had followed them into the sea; not one of them remained. 29 But the Israelites walked on dry ground through the sea, the waters forming a wall for them on their right and on their left. \par
30 Thus the LORD saved Israel that day from the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. 31 Israel saw the great work that the LORD did against the Egyptians. So the people feared the LORD and believed in the LORD and in his servant Moses. \par
\par
\pard 15:20 Then the prophet Miriam, Aaron's sister, took a tambourine in her hand; and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dancing. 21 And Miriam sang to them: \par
"Sing to the LORD, for he has triumphed gloriously; \par
horse and rider he has thrown into the sea." \fs24\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\f4\fs22\par
\fs20  \par
\b\f3\fs32 Canticle 8\fs36  \fs24    The Song of Moses\b0    \i Cantemus Domino\i0\par
\par
\i\fs20 Exodus 15:1-6, 11-13, 17-18\par
\par
\i0\fs22\par
I will sing to the Lord, for he is lofty and uplifted; *\par
   the horse and its rider has he hurled into the sea. \par
The Lord is my strength and my refuge; *\par
   the Lord has become my Savior. \par
This is my God and I will praise him, *\par
   the God of my people and I will exalt him. \par
The Lord is a mighty warrior; *\par
   Yahweh is his Name. \par
The chariots of Pharaoh and his army has he hurled into the sea;*\par
   the finest of those who bear armor have been \par
                          drowned in the Red Sea. \par
The fathomless deep has overwhelmed them; *\par
   they sank into the depths like a stone. \par
Your right hand, O Lord, is glorious in might; *\par
   your right hand, O Lord, has overthrown the enemy. \par
Who can be compared with you, O Lord, among the gods? *\par
   who is like you, glorious in holiness,\par
   awesome in renown, and worker of wonders? \par
You stretched forth your right hand; *\par
   the earth swallowed them up. \par
With your constant love you led the people you redeemed; *\par
   with your might you brought them in safety to your holy dwelling. \par
You will bring them in and plant them *\par
   on the mount of your possession, \par
The resting-place you have made for yourself, O Lord, *\par
   the sanctuary, O Lord, that your hand has established. \par
The Lord shall reign *\par
   for ever and for ever. \par
\par
\par
\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
O God, whose wonderful deeds of old shine forth even to\par
our own day, you once delivered by the power of your mighty\par
arm your chosen people from slavery under Pharaoh, to be a\par
sign for us of the salvation of all nations by the water of\par
Baptism: Grant that all the peoples of the earth may be\par
numbered among the offspring of Abraham, and rejoice in\par
the inheritance of Israel; through Jesus Christ our Lord.\par
\i Amen.\par
\i0\par
\fs22\par
\b\f4\fs24 Salvation offered freely to all\b0\fs20\par
\f3\par
\pard\fs22 Isai 55:1 (NRSV) Ho, everyone who thirsts, \par
come to the waters; \par
and you that have no money, \par
come, buy and eat! \par
Come, buy wine and milk \par
without money and without price. \par
2 Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, \par
and your labor for that which does not satisfy? \par
Listen carefully to me, and eat what is good, \par
and delight yourselves in rich food. \par
3 Incline your ear, and come to me; \par
listen, so that you may live. \par
I will make with you an everlasting covenant, \par
my steadfast, sure love for David. \par
4 See, I made him a witness to the peoples, \par
a leader and commander for the peoples. \par
5 See, you shall call nations that you do not know, \par
and nations that do not know you shall run to you, \par
because of the LORD your God, the Holy One of Israel, \par
for he has glorified you. \par
6 Seek the LORD while he may be found, \par
call upon him while he is near; \par
7 let the wicked forsake their way, \par
and the unrighteous their thoughts; \par
let them return to the LORD, that he may have mercy on them, \par
and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. \par
8 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, \par
nor are your ways my ways, says the LORD. \par
9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, \par
so are my ways higher than your ways \par
and my thoughts than your thoughts. \par
10 For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, \par
and do not return there until they have watered the earth, \par
making it bring forth and sprout, \par
giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, \par
11 so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; \par
it shall not return to me empty, \par
but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, \par
and succeed in the thing for which I sent it. \f2\par
\par
\f3\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\b\fs32 Canticle 9\fs36  \fs24    The First Song of Isaiah\b0   \i Ecce, Deus\i0\par
\par
\i\fs20 Isaiah 12:2-6\i0\fs24\par
\fs22\par
Surely, it is God who saves me; *\par
   I will trust in him and not be afraid. \par
For the Lord is my stronghold and my sure defense, *\par
   and he will be my Savior. \par
Therefore you shall draw water with rejoicing *\par
   from the springs of salvation. \par
And on that day you shall say, *\par
   Give thanks to the Lord and call upon his Name; \par
Make his deeds known among the peoples; *\par
   see that they remember that his Name is exalted. \par
Sing praises of the Lord, for he has done great things, *\par
   and this is known in all the world. \par
Cry aloud, inhabitants of Zion, ring out your joy, *\par
 for the great one in the midst of you is the Holy One of Israel. \fs20\par
\f4\fs22\par
\f3\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
O God, you have created all things by the power of your\par
Word, and you renew the earth by your Spirit: Give now the\par
water of life to those who thirst for you, that they may bring\par
forth abundant fruit in your glorious kingdom; through Jesus\par
Christ our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\par
\par
\par
\b God's Presence in a renewed Israel\b0  \fs20\par
\fs24\par
\pard\fs22 Baruch 3:9 Hear the commandments of life, O Israel;\par
give ear, and learn wisdom!\par
10 Why is it, O Israel, why is it that you are in the land of your enemies,\par
that you are growing old in a foreign country,\par
that you are defiled with the dead,\par
11 that you are counted among those in Hades?\par
12 You have forsaken the fountain of wisdom.\par
13 If you had walked in the way of God,\par
you would be living in peace forever.\par
14 Learn where there is wisdom,\par
where there is strength,\par
where there is understanding,\par
so that you may at the same time discern\par
where there is length of days, and life,\par
where there is light for the eyes, and peace. \par
15 Who has found her place?\par
And who has entered her storehouses?\par
\par
32 But the one who knows all things knows her,\par
he found her by his understanding.\par
The one who prepared the earth for all time\par
filled it with four-footed creatures;\par
33 the one who sends forth the light, and it goes;\par
he called it, and it obeyed him, trembling;\par
34 the stars shone in their watches, and were glad;\par
he called them, and they said, "Here we are!"\par
They shone with gladness for him who made them.\par
35 This is our God;\par
no other can be compared to him.\par
36 He found the whole way to knowledge,\par
and gave her to his servant Jacob\par
and to Israel, whom he loved.\par
37 Afterward she appeared on earth\par
and lived with humankind. \par
4:1 She is the book of the commandments of God,\par
the law that endures forever.\par
All who hold her fast will live,\par
and those who forsake her will die.\par
2 Turn, O Jacob, and take her;\par
walk toward the shining of her light.\par
3 Do not give your glory to another,\par
or your advantages to an alien people.\par
4 Happy are we, O Israel,\par
for we know what is pleasing to God. \par
\par
\i Or\par
\i0\par
Proverbs 8:1 (NRSV) Does not wisdom call, \par
and does not understanding raise her voice? \par
2 On the heights, beside the way, \par
at the crossroads she takes her stand; \par
3 beside the gates in front of the town, \par
at the entrance of the portals she cries out: \par
4 "To you, O people, I call, \par
and my cry is to all that live. \par
5 O simple ones, learn prudence; \par
acquire intelligence, you who lack it. \par
6 Hear, for I will speak noble things, \par
and from my lips will come what is right; \par
7 for my mouth will utter truth; \par
wickedness is an abomination to my lips. \par
8 All the words of my mouth are righteous; \par
there is nothing twisted or crooked in them. \par
\par
19 My fruit is better than gold, even fine gold, \par
and my yield than choice silver. \par
20 I walk in the way of righteousness, \par
along the paths of justice, \par
21 endowing with wealth those who love me, \par
and filling their treasuries. \par
\par
9:4 In the heavens he has set a tent for the sun, \par
5 which comes out like a bridegroom from his wedding canopy, \par
and like a strong man runs its course with joy. \par
6 Its rising is from the end of the heavens, \par
and its circuit to the end of them; \par
and nothing is hid from its heat. \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\f4\fs24\par
\f3\fs20\par
\pard\b\fs36 19\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 C\'9cli enarrant\i0\fs24\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 1  \tab The heavens declare the glory of God, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and the firmament shows his handiwork.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 2  \tab One day tells its tale to another, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and one night imparts knowledge to another.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 3  \tab Although they have no words or language, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and their voices are not heard,\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 4  \tab Their sound has gone out into all lands, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and their message to the ends of the world.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 5  \tab In the deep has he set a pavilion for the sun; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab it comes forth like a bridegroom out of his chamber;\par
 \tab it rejoices like a champion to run its course.\par
\par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 6  \tab It goes forth from the uttermost edge of the heavens\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 and runs about to the end of it again; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab nothing is hidden from its burning heat.\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 7  \tab The law of the \scaps Lord\scaps0  is perfect\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab and revives the soul; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab the testimony of the \scaps Lord\scaps0  is sure\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab and gives wisdom to the innocent.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 8  \tab The statutes of the \scaps Lord \scaps0 are just\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab and rejoice the heart; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab the commandment of the \scaps Lord\scaps0  is clear\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab and gives light to the eyes.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 9  \tab The fear of the \scaps Lord\scaps0  is clean\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab and endures for ever; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab the judgments of the \scaps Lord\scaps0  are true\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab and righteous altogether.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 10 \tab More to be desired are they than gold,\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab more than much fine gold, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab sweeter far than honey,\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab than honey in the comb.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 11  By them also is your servant enlightened, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and in keeping them there is great reward.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 12  Who can tell how often he offends? *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab cleanse me from my secret faults.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 13  Above all, keep your servant from presumptuous sins;\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 let them not get dominion over me; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab then shall I be whole and sound,\par
 \tab and innocent of a great offense.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 14  Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab heart be acceptable in your sight, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab O \scaps Lord\scaps0 , my strength and my redeemer.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\fs20\par
 \fs22\par
\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\par
\par
\i0 O God, you led your ancient people by a pillar of cloud by day\par
and a pillar of fire by night: Grant that we, who serve you\par
now on earth, may come to the joy of that heavenly Jerusalem,\par
where all tears are wiped away and where your saints for ever\par
sing your praise; through Jesus Christ our Lord. \i Amen.\i0\par
\par
\i\f4  \par
\b\i0\f3 A new heart and a new spirit\b0  \fs20\par
\par
\fs22 Ezekiel 36:24 (NRSV) I will take you from the nations, and gather you from all the countries, and bring you into your own land. 25 I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. 26 A new heart I will give you, and a new spirit I will put within you; and I will remove from your body the heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. 27 I will put my spirit within you, and make you follow my statutes and be careful to observe my ordinances. 28 Then you shall live in the land that I gave to your ancestors; and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. \fs20\par
\f4  \par
\b\f3\fs32 42\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Quemadmodum\i0\fs24\par
 \fs22\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 1  \tab As the deer longs for the water-brooks, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  so longs my soul for you, O God.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 2  \tab My soul is athirst for God, athirst for the living God; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  when shall I come to appear before the presence of God?\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 3  \tab My tears have been my food day and night, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  while all day long they say to me, "Where now is your God?"\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 4  \tab I pour out my soul when I think on these things; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  how I went with the multitude and led them into the \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tab\tab house of God,\par
 \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 5  \tab With the voice of praise and thanksgiving, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  among those who keep holy-day.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 6  \tab Why are you so full of heaviness, O my soul? *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and why are you so disquieted within me?\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 7  \tab Put your trust in God; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  for I will yet give thanks to him,\par
 who is the help of my countenance, and my God.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\f4  \par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\b\f3\fs36 43\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Judica me, Deus\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 1  \tab Give judgment for me, O God,\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 and defend my cause against an ungodly people; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab deliver me from the deceitful and the wicked.\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 2  \tab For you are the God of my strength;\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 why have you put me from you? *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and why do I go so heavily while the enemy\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\tab\tab oppresses me?\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 3  \tab Send out your light and your truth, that they may lead me, *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and bring me to your holy hill\par
 \tab and to your dwelling;\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 4  \tab That I may go to the altar of God,\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 to the God of my joy and gladness; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and on the harp I will give thanks to you, O God my God.\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720\par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 5  \tab Why are you so full of heaviness, O my soul? *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab and why are you so disquieted within me?\par
\pard\sl120\slmult1\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li720\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 6  \tab Put your trust in God; *\par
\pard\fi-270\li270\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \tab for I will yet give thanks to him,\par
 \tab who is the help of my countenance, and my God.\par
\pard\tx0\tx270\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720  \i\fs20\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\f4\fs24  \i0\fs22\par
\f3\fs24 Let us pray.     \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
Almighty and everlasting God, who in the Paschal mystery established the new covenant of reconciliation: Grant that all who are reborn into the fellowship of Christ's Body may show forth in their lives what they profess by their faith; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\par
 \par
\f4  \par
\b\f3 The valley of dry bones\b0  \fs20\par
\par
\fs22 Ezekiel 37:1 (NRSV) The hand of the LORD came upon me, and he brought me out by the spirit of the LORD and set me down in the middle of a valley; it was full of bones. 2 He led me all around them; there were very many lying in the valley, and they were very dry. 3 He said to me, "Mortal, can these bones live?" I answered, "O Lord GOD, you know." 4 Then he said to me, "Prophesy to these bones, and say to them: O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD. 5 Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. 6 I will lay sinews on you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live; and you shall know that I am the LORD." \par
7 So I prophesied as I had been commanded; and as I prophesied, suddenly there was a noise, a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone. 8 I looked, and there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them; but there was no breath in them. 9 Then he said to me, "Prophesy to the breath, prophesy, mortal, and say to the breath: Thus says the Lord GOD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live." 10 I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood on their feet, a vast multitude. \par
11 Then he said to me, "Mortal, these bones are the whole house of Israel. They say, "Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are cut off completely.' 12 Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: I am going to open your graves, and bring you up from your graves, O my people; and I will bring you back to the land of Israel. 13 And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I open your graves, and bring you up from your graves, O my people. 14 I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you on your own soil; then you shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken and will act," says the LORD. \f4\fs20\par
 \par
\fs22\par
\b\f3\fs32 143\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Domine, exaudi\par
 \i0\fs22\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\fs24 1  \tab Lord, hear my prayer, \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 and in your faithfulness heed my supplications; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  answer me in your righteousness.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 2  \tab Enter not into judgment with your servant, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  for in your sight shall no one living be justified.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 3  \tab For my enemy has sought my life; he has crushed me to the ground; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  he has made me live in dark places like those who are long dead.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 4  \tab My spirit faints within me; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  my heart within me is desolate.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 5  \tab I remember the time past; I muse upon all your deeds; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  I consider the works of your hands.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 6  \tab I spread out my hands to you; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  my soul gasps to you like a thirsty land.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 7  \tab O Lord, make haste to answer me; my spirit fails me; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  do not hide your face from me\par
\pard\fi-324\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \tab or I shall be like those who go down to the Pit.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 8  \tab Let me hear of your loving-kindness in the morning,\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tab for I put my trust in you; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  show me the road that I must walk, for I lift up my soul to you.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 9  \tab Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  for I flee to you for refuge.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 10  Teach me to do what pleases you, for you are my God; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  let your good Spirit lead me on level ground.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 11  Revive me, O Lord, for your Name's sake; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  for your righteousness' sake, bring me out of trouble.  \par
\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 12  Of your goodness, destroy my enemies \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 and bring all my foes to naught, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  for truly I am your servant.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\fs22   \par
\fs24 Let us pray.    \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
Almighty God, by the Passover of your Son you have brought\par
us out of sin into righteousness and out of death into life:\par
Grant to those who are sealed by your Holy Spirit the will\par
and the power to proclaim you to all the world; through Jesus\par
Christ our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\par
 \par
\f4  \par
\b\f3 The gathering of God's people\b0  \fs20\par
\par
\fs22 Zephaniah 3:14 (NRSV) Sing aloud, O daughter Zion; \par
shout, O Israel! \par
Rejoice and exult with all your heart, \par
O daughter Jerusalem! \par
15 The LORD has taken away the judgments against you, \par
he has turned away your enemies. \par
The king of Israel, the LORD, is in your midst; \par
you shall fear disaster no more. \par
16 On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem: \par
Do not fear, O Zion; \par
do not let your hands grow weak. \par
17 The LORD, your God, is in your midst, \par
a warrior who gives victory; \par
he will rejoice over you with gladness, \par
he will renew you \{Gk Syr: Heb [he will be silent]\} in his love; \par
he will exult over you with loud singing \par
18 as on a day of festival.\par
I will remove disaster from you,\par
so that you will not bear reproach for it. \par
19 I will deal with all your oppressors \par
at that time. \par
And I will save the lame \par
and gather the outcast, \par
and I will change their shame into praise \par
and renown in all the earth. \par
20 At that time I will bring you home, \par
at the time when I gather you; \par
for I will make you renowned and praised \par
among all the peoples of the earth, \par
when I restore your fortunes \par
before your eyes, says the LORD. \fs20  \f4\par
\par
\f3\par
\b\fs32 98\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 Cantate Domino\i0\fs24\par
 \fs22\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 1  \tab Sing to the Lord a new song, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  for he has done marvelous things.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 2  \tab With his right hand and his holy arm *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  has he won for himself the victory.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 3  \tab The Lord has made known his victory; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  his righteousness has he openly shown in the sight of the nations.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 4  \tab He remembers his mercy and faithfulness to the house of Israel, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and all the ends of the earth have seen the victory of our God.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 5  \tab Shout with joy to the Lord, all you lands; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  lift up your voice, rejoice, and sing.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 6  \tab Sing to the Lord with the harp, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  with the harp and the voice of song.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 7  \tab With trumpets and the sound of the horn *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  shout with joy before the King, the Lord.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 8  \tab Let the sea make a noise and all that is in it, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  the lands and those who dwell therein.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 9  \tab Let the rivers clap their hands, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and let the hills ring out with joy before the Lord,\par
 when he comes to judge the earth.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 10  \tab In righteousness shall he judge the world *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and the peoples with equity.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800   \par
\fs24 Let us pray.  \i (Silence)\i0\par
 \par
O God of unchangeable power and eternal light: Look\par
favorably on your whole Church, that wonderful and sacred\par
mystery; by the effectual working of your providence, carry\par
out in tranquillity the plan of salvation; let the whole world\par
see and know that things which were cast down are being\par
raised up, and things which had grown old are being made\par
new, and that all things are being brought to their perfection\par
by him through whom all things were made, your Son Jesus\par
Christ our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\fs22\par
 \par
\par
\i\fs20 A homily may be preached after any of the preceding Readings.\par
 \par
Holy Baptism (beginning with the Presentation of the Candidates,\par
page 305, and concluding with the reception of the newly baptized) may\par
be administered here or after the Gospel.  Confirmation may also be\par
administered.\par
\par
In the absence of candidates for Baptism or Confirmation, the\par
Celebrant leads the people in the Renewal of Baptismal Vows, either here\par
or after the Gospel.\par
 \par
The Celebrant may first address the people in these or similar words,\par
all standing\i0\fs22\par
 \par
\fs24 Through the Paschal mystery, dear friends, we are buried\par
with Christ by Baptism into his death, and raised with him to\par
newness of life.  I call upon you, therefore, now that our\par
Lenten observance is ended, to renew the solemn promises\par
and vows of Holy Baptism, by which we once renounced\par
Satan and all his works, and promised to serve God faithfully\par
in his holy Catholic Church.\par
 \par
\par
\par
 \par
\b\fs36 The Renewal of Baptismal Vows\b0\fs24\par
 \par
 \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24   \tab Do you reaffirm your renunciation of evil and renew your commitment to Jesus Christ? \par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24   \tab I do. \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24   \tab Do you believe in God the Father? \par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24   \tab I believe in God, the Father almighty, creator of heaven and earth.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\par
\pard\par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24   \tab Do you believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God? \par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24   \tab I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord. \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tab\tab\tab He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit\par
\tab\tab\tab    and born of the Virgin Mary.\par
\tab\tab\tab He suffered under Pontius Pilate,\par
\tab\tab\tab    was crucified, died, and was buried.\par
\tab\tab\tab He descended to the dead.\par
\tab\tab\tab On the third day he rose again.\par
\tab\tab\tab He ascended into heaven,\par
\tab\tab\tab    and is seated at the right hand of the Father.\par
\pard\li1314\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 He will come again to judge the living and the dead.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24   \tab Do you believe in God the Holy Spirit? \par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24   \tab I believe in the Holy Spirit,\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tab\tab\tab the holy catholic Church,\par
\tab\tab\tab the communion of saints,\par
\tab\tab\tab the forgiveness of sins,\par
\tab\tab\tab the resurrection of the body,\par
\tab\tab\tab and the life everlasting.\par
 \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24   \tab Will you continue in the apostles' teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in the prayers? \par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24  \tab I will, with God's help.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24  \tab Will you persevere in resisting evil, and, whenever you  fall into sin, repent and return to the Lord?\par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24  \tab I will, with God's help. \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24  \tab Will you proclaim by word and example the Good News of God in Christ?\par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24\tab I will, with God\f6\rquote\f3 s help.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24\tab Will you seek and serve Christ in all persons, loving your neighbor as yourself?\par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24\tab I will, with God\f6\rquote\f3 s help. \par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24  \tab Will you strive for justice and peace among all people,  and respect the dignity of every human being? \par
\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24  \tab I will, with God's help.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800   \par
\i\fs20 The Celebrant concludes the Renewal of Vows as follows\i0\fs24\par
 \par
May Almighty God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who\par
has given us a new birth by water and the Holy Spirit, and\par
bestowed upon us the forgiveness of sins, keep us in eternal\par
life by his grace, in Christ Jesus our Lord.  \i Amen.\i0\par
 \par
 \par
\par
\b\fs36 At the Eucharist\b0\fs24\par
 \par
\i\fs20 The candles at the Altar may now be lighted from the Paschal Candle.\par
 \par
One of the following Canticles is then sung. Immediately before the\par
Canticle the Celebrant may say to the people\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\tab\tab Alleluia.  Christ is risen. \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24   \tab The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\i The Canticles\i0\par
 \par
\b Glory to God\b0     \i Gloria in excelsis\i0\par
\par
Glory to God in the highest,\par
   and peace to his people on earth. \par
\par
Lord God, heavenly King,\par
almighty God and Father,\par
\par
   we worship you, we give you thanks,\par
   we praise you for your glory. \par
\par
Lord Jesus Christ, only Son of the Father,\par
Lord God, Lamb of God,\par
you take away the sin of the world:\par
   have mercy on us; \par
you are seated at the right hand of the Father:\par
   receive our prayer. \par
\par
For you alone are the Holy One,\par
you alone are the Lord,\par
you alone are the Most High,\par
   Jesus Christ,\par
   with the Holy Spirit,\par
   in the glory of God the Father.  Amen. \par
\par
\par
\b You are God\b0     \i Te Deum laudamus\i0\par
\par
You are God:  we praise you;\par
You are the Lord; we acclaim you;\par
You are the eternal Father:\par
All creation worships you.\par
To you all angels, all the powers of heaven,\par
Cherubim and Seraphim, sing in endless praise:\par
   Holy, holy, holy Lord, God of power and might,\par
   heaven and earth are full of your glory. \par
The glorious company of apostles praise you.\par
The noble fellowship of prophets praise you.\par
The white-robed army of martyrs praise you.\par
Throughout the world the holy Church acclaims you;\par
   Father, of majesty unbounded,\par
   your true and only Son, worthy of all worship,\par
   and the Holy Spirit, advocate and guide. \par
You, Christ, are the king of glory,\par
the eternal Son of the Father.\par
When you became man to set us free\par
you did not shun the Virgin's womb.\par
You overcame the sting of death\par
and opened the kingdom of heaven to all believers.\par
You are seated at God's right hand in glory.\par
We believe that you will come and be our judge.\par
   Come then, Lord, and help your people,\par
   bought with the price of your own blood,\par
   and bring us with your saints\par
   to glory everlasting. \par
\fs20\par
\par
\b\fs24 Christ our Passover\b0   \i Pascha nostrum\i0\par
\par
\i\fs20 1 Corinthians 5:7-8; Romans 6:9-11; 1 Corinthians 15:20-22\par
\i0\fs24\par
Alleluia.\par
Christ our Passover has been sacrificed for us; *\par
  therefore let us keep the feast, \par
Not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, *\par
  but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Alleluia.\par
\par
Christ being raised from the dead will never die again; *\par
  death no longer has dominion over him.\par
The death that he dies, he dies to sin, once for all; *\par
  but the life he lives, he lives to God. \par
So also consider yourselves dead to sin, *\par
 and alive to God in Jesus Christ our Lord.  Alleluia. \par
\par
Christ has been raised from the dead, *\par
  the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. \par
For since by a man came death, *\par
  by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. \par
For as in Adam all die, *\par
  so also in Christ shall all be made alive.  Alleluia. \par
\par
 \par
\i\fs20 The Celebrant then says\i0\fs24\par
 \par
\tab\tab The Lord be with you. \par
\pard\fi-1044\li1044\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\i\fs20 People\i0\fs24   \tab And also with you. \par
\i\fs20 Celebrant\i0\fs24   \tab Let us pray.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\par
\pard\par
\i\fs20 The Celebrant says one of the following Collects\i0\fs24\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
Almighty God, who for our redemption gave your only-\par
begotten Son to the death of the cross, and by his glorious\par
resurrection delivered us from the power of our enemy:  Grant\par
us so to die daily to sin, that we may evermore live with him\par
in the joy of his resurrection; through Jesus Christ your Son\par
our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit,\par
one God, now and for ever.  \i Amen.\i0\par
 \par
\i\fs20 or this\i0\fs24\par
 \par
O God, who made this most holy night to shine with the\par
glory of the Lord's resurrection: Stir up in your Church that\par
Spirit of adoption which is given to us in Baptism, that we,\par
being renewed both in body and mind, may worship you\par
in sincerity and truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives\par
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God,\par
now and for ever.  \i Amen.\i0\par
 \par
\i\fs20 Epistle\i0     \par
\par
\fs22 Romans 6:3 (NRSV) Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 4 Therefore we have been buried with him by baptism into death, so that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. \par
5 For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we will certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. 6 We know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body of sin might be destroyed, and we might no longer be enslaved to sin. 7 For whoever has died is freed from sin. 8 But if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. 9 We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. 10 The death he died, he died to sin, once for all; but the life he lives, he lives to God. 11 So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. \fs20\par
 \par
\i\f6\ldblquote\f3 Alleluia\f6\rdblquote\f3  may be sung and repeated.\par
 \par
\b\i0\fs32 114\b0\fs24    \i\fs20 In exitu Israel\i0\fs24\par
 \fs22\par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 1  \tab Hallelujah! When Israel came out of Egypt, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  the house of Jacob from a people of strange speech,\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 2  \tab Judah became God's sanctuary *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and Israel his dominion.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 3  \tab The sea beheld it and fled; *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  Jordan turned and went back.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 4  \tab The mountains skipped like rams, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and the little hills like young sheep.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 5  \tab What ailed you, O sea, that you fled? *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  O Jordan, that you turned back?\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 6  \tab You mountains, that you skipped like rams? *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  you little hills like young sheep?\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 7  \tab Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  at the presence of the God of Jacob,\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \par
\pard\fi-1440\li1440\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800 8  \tab Who turned the hard rock into a pool of water *\par
\pard\li324\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  and flint-stone into a flowing spring.\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800  \i\fs20\par
or some other suitable psalm or a hymn may be sung.\par
 \par
Gospel    \i0\par
\fs22\par
\pard Matthew 28:1 (NRSV) After the sabbath, as the first day of the week was dawning, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. 2 And suddenly there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord, descending from heaven, came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. 3 His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. 4 For fear of him the guards shook and became like dead men. 5 But the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid; I know that you are looking for Jesus who was crucified. 6 He is not here; for he has been raised, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. 7 Then go quickly and tell his disciples, "He has been raised from the dead, and indeed he is going ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see him.' This is my message for you." 8 So they left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. 9 Suddenly Jesus met them and said, "Greetings!" And they came to him, took hold of his feet, and worshiped him. 10 Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee; there they will see me." \f7\fs24\par
\pard\tx324\tx1044\tx1314\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\f3\fs20  \par
\i If a sermon or homily was not preached earlier, it follows here.\par
 \par
The Nicene Creed is not used at this service\par
 \par
Holy Baptism, Confirmation, or the Renewal of Baptismal Vows may\par
take place here.\par
 \par
The celebration continues with the Prayers of the People.\fs22\par
 \i0\par
\i Preface of Easter\i0\par
}
 